Arranger V3 User Docs Update (#259)
overture-stack/website: markdown/documentation/arranger/installation/configuration/es.md

---
title: Supplying an Index Mapping
---

> Now that installation is complete, we need to configure and supply an index mapping to Elasticsearch. This index mapping will complete Elasticsearchs setup and link the Index to the Arranger Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that installation is complete, we need to configure and supply an index mapping to Elasticsearch. This index mapping will complete Elasticsearch's setup and link the Index to the Arranger Server.
```

# Using the Default Index Mapping

> The default index mapping, called `file_centric_1.0`, is a sample mapping used for cancer genomics. The file_centric_1.0 index mapping represents genomic file metadata that can be searched using Arranger.  In Arranger, the sample mapping is configured in the `index_config.json` file.  The sample mapping can be viewed from the GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/overture-stack/arranger/blob/2edf185835fa5e9c5db84a9567bce66d03355623/docker/elasticsearch/index_config.json).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default index mapping, called `file_centric_1.0`, is a sample mapping used for cancer genomics. It represents the structure of genomic file metadata that can be searched using Arranger.  In Arranger, the sample mapping is configured in the `index_config.json` file, and can be viewed from the GitHub repository [here](https://github.com/overture-stack/arranger/blob/2edf185835fa5e9c5db84a9567bce66d03355623/docker/elasticsearch/index_config.json).
```

Reviewer: ...and we should also mention that this index name (i.e. `file_centric_1.0`) must match the `ES_INDEX` they set in the make file

> To set up Arranger with a default mapping, run the following `make` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up Arranger with this example mapping, run the following `make` command:
```

```shell
make seed-es
```

> We recommend using the [Elasticvue chrome extenstion](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/elasticvue/hkedbapjpblbodpgbajblpnlpenaebaa) to add the elastic search index. Use the following default information for connecting the index.

Reviewer: We could also offer a link to the desktop app, and firefox and edge extensions... or we can just link to their website and users can choose.
```suggestion
We recommend using [Elasticvue](https://elasticvue.com/) to facilitate adding the Elasticsearch index. Use the following default information for connecting the index.
```

- **Username:** elastic
- **Password:** myelasticpassword
- **URI:** http://localhost:9200

> <Note title="Restart the Server"> Once the elasticsearch instance is connected you will need to restart Arranger server</Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note title="Restart the Server"> Once the Elasticsearch instance is connected you will need to restart Arranger server</Note>
```
